gh-76535: Make `PyUnicode_ToLowerFull` and friends public (#136176)
python/cpython: Doc/c-api/unicode.rst

   possible.  This function does not raise exceptions.

> .. c:function:: Py_ssize_t PyUnicode_ToLower(Py_UCS4 ch, Py_UCS4 *buffer)

Reviewer: I would prefer to have a buffer size parameter and return an error if the buffer is too small.

   Convert *ch* to lower case, store result in *buffer*, which should be
   able to hold as many characters needed for *ch* to be lower cased

>    (maximum three), and return the number of characters stored.

Reviewer: The maximum (three) may change in future Unicode versions, no?

   possible.  This function does not raise exceptions.

> .. c:function:: Py_ssize_t PyUnicode_ToLower(Py_UCS4 ch, Py_UCS4 *buffer, int size)

Reviewer: Maybe size type should be `Py_ssize_t` should be consistent with the result type.

Author: Hmm, the implementation right now uses `int` for both. I agree we should be consistent with types. Let's use `Py_ssize_t` for both?

Reviewer: For sizes in general, we should use `Py_ssize_t` type. Even if the type is just 3 in practice.

   Convert *ch* to lower case, store result in *buffer*, which should be

>    able to hold as many characters needed for *ch* to be lower cased
>    (e.g. a maximum of two character for Unicode 16.0), and
>    return the number of characters stored. If at some point a buffer overflow
>    is detected, an :exc:`ValueError` is raised and ``-1`` is returned.

Reviewer 2: The word “maximum” makes it sound like you can't set *size* to more than 2.
Perhaps something like this? 
```suggestion
   able to hold as many characters needed for *ch* to be lower cased, and
   return the number of characters stored. If at some point a buffer overflow
   is detected, an :exc:`ValueError` is raised and ``-1`` is returned.

   In Unicode 16.0, any character can be lowercased into a buffer of *size* ``2``.
   See also :c:macro:`PyUCS4_CASE_CONVERSION_BUFFER_SIZE`.
```

Please also update `Tools/unicode/makeunicodedata.py` -- around line 40 there's a list of docs pages that refer to Python's current Unicode version.

> 

Reviewer: Should we document that Unicode 16.0 "for example" can expand a single character to 3 characters?

>    an :exc:`OverflowError` is raised and ``-1`` is returned.

Reviewer: I would prefer raising `ValueError`, since we pass *size*. What do you think?

   .. versionadded:: next

.. c:function:: Py_ssize_t PyUCS4_ToUpper(Py_UCS4 ch, Py_UCS4 *buffer, Py_ssize_t size)

   Convert *ch* to upper case, store result in *buffer*, which should be
   able to hold as many characters needed for *ch* to be upper cased
   (e.g. a maximum of three character for Unicode 16.0), and
   return the number of characters stored. If at some point a buffer overflow
   is detected, an :exc:`ValueError` is raised and ``-1`` is returned.

   .. versionadded:: next

.. c:function:: Py_ssize_t PyUCS4_ToTitle(Py_UCS4 ch, Py_UCS4 *buffer, Py_ssize_t size)

   Convert *ch* to title case, store result in *buffer*, which should be
   able to hold as many characters needed for *ch* to be title cased
   (e.g. a maximum of three character for Unicode 16.0), and
   return the number of characters stored. If at some point a buffer overflow
   is detected, an :exc:`ValueError` is raised and ``-1`` is returned.

   .. versionadded:: next

.. c:function:: Py_ssize_t PyUCS4_ToFolded(Py_UCS4 ch, Py_UCS4 *buffer, Py_ssize_t size)

>    Foldcase *ch*, store result in *buffer*, which should be
>    able to hold as many characters needed for *ch* to be foldcased
>    (e.g. a maximum of three character for Unicode 16.0), and
>    return the number of characters stored. If at some point a buffer overflow
>    is detected, an :exc:`ValueError` is raised and ``-1`` is returned.
> 
>    .. versionadded:: next
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. c:macro:: PyUCS4_CASE_CONVERSION_BUFFER_SIZE

   The minimum buffer size needed for any call to :c:func:`PyUCS4_ToLower`,
   :c:func:`PyUCS4_ToUpper`, :c:func:`PyUCS4_ToTitle`, or
   :c:func:`PyUCS4_ToFolded`. That is, ``3`` for Unicode 16.0.

.. versionadded:: next

```

   possible.  This function does not raise exceptions.

.. c:function:: Py_ssize_t PyUnicode_ToLower(Py_UCS4 ch, Py_UCS4 *buffer, int size)

   Convert *ch* to lower case, store result in *buffer*, which should be
   able to hold as many characters needed for *ch* to be lower cased
   (e.g. a maximum of two character for Unicode 16.0), and

>    return the number of characters stored. Passing a ``NULL`` buffer returns

Reviewer: Is it an important usecase for you to be able to pass NULL buffer to get the buffer size? Removing this feature would make the implementation simpler.

Author: No, it's not an important usecase. I implemented because it was suggested on the issue and it also seems like standard practice for some C functions that accept buffers.

Author: Do you think I should remove it?

Reviewer: I don't think that someone will call the function with NULL, allocate a buffer on the heap memory with the result (size), call again the function, and then release the buffer. It sounds complicated just to transform a single character.

Just overallocate 10 characters on the stack memory, call the function once, that's it. You get the size as well. If you don't need characters, just ignore them.

Author: Agreed.
